Training related changes to the onnxruntime website (#15900)
microsoft/onnxruntime: docs/build/training.md

---
title: Build for training
parent: Build ONNX Runtime
description: Learn how to build ONNX Runtime for training from source for different scenarios and hardware targets
nav_order: 2
redirect_from: /docs/how-to/build/training
---

# Build for On-Device Training
{: .no_toc }

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.x
- CMake

## Build Instructions for the Training Phase

1. Clone the repository

    ```bash
    git clone --recursive https://github.com/Microsoft/onnxruntime.git
    cd onnxruntime
    ```

> 2. Build onnxruntime for `On-Device Training`

Reviewer: nit, when we specify onnxruntime, maybe we should use a consistent style calling it, I see there is "ONNX Runtime" and "onnxruntime", I would prefer the former one. :)

The default NVIDIA GPU build requires CUDA runtime libraries installed on the system:

* [CUDA](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-toolkit)
* [cuDNN](https://developer.nvidia.com/cudnn)
* [NCCL](https://developer.nvidia.com/nccl)
* [OpenMPI](https://www.open-mpi.org/) (optional)
  * See [install_openmpi.sh](https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/blob/main/tools/ci_build/github/linux/docker/scripts/install_openmpi.sh)

### Build instructions
{: .no_toc }

1. Checkout this code repo with

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime
    cd onnxruntime
    ```

> 2. Set the environment variables: *adjust the path for location your build machine*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the environment variables: *adjust the paths for locations on your build machine*
```

    export MPI_CXX_INCLUDE_PATH=<location for openmpi/include/>
    ```

3. Create the ONNX Runtime Python wheel

   ```bash

>    ./build.sh --config=RelWithDebInfo --enable_training --build_wheel --use_cuda --cuda_home {location of cuda libs eg. /usr/local/cuda/} --cudnn_home {location of cudnn libs eg./usr/local/cuda/} --cuda_version={version for eg. 11.8} --mpi_home <location for openmpi eg. /usr/local/include/>

Reviewer: I think we can avoid having mpi related in the sample, as it is not used for real usage except for the legacy orttrainer users. Now by default, training don't requires mpi/nccl unless we enable with onnxruntime_USE_MPI/onnxruntime_USE_NCCL.

Author: I marked it as optional earlier in this doc. But I think you're right, we should not need to ask users to install mpi/nccl as the distributed stuff is done outside of ort as of now.

Will update the doc.
